# library-inventory
Conceptual model: https://im.ge/i/OjqxSP
Flowchart: https://im.ge/i/Ojq968
UML diagram: https://im.ge/i/Ojq8gW

Optimization of a process by which the company can track their goods throughout their entire supply chain is a prime example of a task that requires both programming and analytical skill, a well-grounded way of reflecting upon gained knowledge and applying it to a practical task.
The becoming of public libraries goes deep into history, tracing as far as 2600 BC. These “libraries” were nothing more than archives of the earliest forms of writing, for example, clay tablets in cuneiform script found in Sumer. One of the first community-run libraries was Malatestiana Library, established in 1447 in Cesena, Italy. It provided both secular and religious texts in Latin, Greek and Hebrew for all members of the public.
Ever since public libraries always played an important role in any society both academic and social parts. Member’s social or economic status isn’t relevant inside the libraries as they offer free education and entertainment to anyone that comes inside. Not only books can be found there – most libraries keep records of old newspapers and subscribe to the new ones, periodicals, even audiobooks, magazines, music, movies and other alternative methods of storing information. Some of the libraries can be hardly distinguished from museums, acting as repositories for local history. 
However, nowadays more and more public libraries tend to serve the public interest, becoming more of places to unite communities and provide different free services (such as preschool story times to encourage early literacy, quiet study and work areas, equipped with modern essential tools such as computers, 3D printers, sound-proof rooms and even with working low-price cafeterias in some). But still, in Latvia, most of the libraries stay outdated, commonly opting to prefer paper inventory over computer solutions. Most of the library employees stick to their traditions, not wanting to change the way they have been working for years and, for some of them, decades. Every child of millennial or early generation Z has gone through a long wait while an old employee at their local public or school library was flipping through old pages of their notebook, trying to find out whether or not they have required textbooks, or watched in terror as they tried to use an outdated computer.
This unwillingness to change by new technologies leads to massive budget and operating hours cuts, а branch closures. The solution may seem simple from the outside: just start changing. Provide access-free internet, offer different workshops for both youngsters and adults so they can learn new skills and find social connections. And most importantly: just start using modern technologies. Right now there are tons of programmes and databases, ready to ease the lives of librarians. The only problem is that together with broad functionality and customisation, these apps seem as complicated to librarians as nuclear physics is to elementary schoolers.
Even small steps are steps nonetheless, as simple as it sounds. Small changes are still changes. As long as librarians take these small steps toward a better future, a difference will be made. In order to aid them on their journey, the author decided to build an application simple enough for anyone to understand and use intuitively.
The core of the programme is a fully editable list of literature available at library “ABC” that can be saved so library employees are always informed whether they have the required book in stock or not. Moreover, employees wouldn’t have to type in each book manually as the programme has the feature of searching through a web database.The author struck for a more user-friendly design so it wouldn’t take users long to learn all about how the programme works and start using it themselves. This is why despite the conceptual model being monochrome later pink colours; representing harmony, calmness, security and approachability; will be opted for. The second colour choice present in the app design is red: often associated with passion, creativity and energy. Both of these interpretations are deeply connected with libraries and books in particular which is why it is the most suitable colour choice for a library programme. 
An app consists of two screens (Figures 1 and 2) with a different number of buttons, labels, and text fields. One of the main goals was to keep the interface from overloading with elements, instead opting for simple fields that would be intuitively understandable to a user. Once the user opens the app, they see the first screen (Figure 1) with a list view on the right, where the information about their in-stock products is represented. A text field on the left for the user to type in the author’s name, book title or simply topic they are willing to find. A set of six buttons, each used to perform following actions: first one to perform HTTP request, using input from the text field, and switch to the second screen. Second to edit a selected row from the list view; to delete the selected row from the listview; third to load items from a file to the list view; fourth to save items from the list view to a file; fifth to immediately close the app. As soon as the user decides to press the “Search” button, the app performs and switches to the second screen (Figure 2), showing books found by the user’s request in a list view or, if the user’s input was invalid, “No results were found” label. Besides that, the screen contains a label and a set of three buttons. The “Add” button is to add a selected item from the list view to the one from the first screen (Figure 1); the “Close” button is to switch right back to the first screen (Figure 1); “Exit” button’s functionality stays the same. 
